
<center> 

<table width=95%> <tr><td> <img
src="http://www.indiana.edu/~jkkteach/consumer_learning/exp03/Portada2.jpg"
align="right">

Welcome to <font color="red">Adventures in Whitewater Rafting!</font>
In this experiment you browse a catalog of whitewater rafts.  Each
page describes a raft, and includes the features emphasized by the
<em>Society of Whitewater Rafters</em> and their quality rating for
the raft.

<p>After you paddle through all the rafts in this catalog, you'll be
given a consumer survey, in which you predict the quality of some new
rafts that are still in the design stages. The manufacturer wants to
know what you think the quality will be. <strong>So, when browsing the
catalog, try to learn what matters for the quality of the
rafts.</strong>

<p>Please do <em>not</em> take notes about the rafts during your browsing.

<p>You can browse the rafts as much as you like, but <em>you must view
every raft at least once</em> before the computer will flow to the
survey phase. Always use the selection table below to move from one
raft to another. (You might notice that for the raft you think is the
last one you need to view, you still need to select another raft. This
is just so that the computer can register the fact that you are done
viewing the raft.)


<p><em>Summary:</em> Browse the rafts from the list below. Try to
learn what matters for the quality of the rafts. Always use the
selection table to move from one raft to another. You must browse
every raft at least once before the computer will go to the consumer
survey. Happy rafting!

</td></tr></table>
</center>
